# Atlantic-Bluefin-Tuna-Climate-Informed-Stock-Assessment
Evidence of changing ocean conditions is increasingly apparent with regions such as the northwest Atlantic experiencing rapid increases in sea surface temperature. Ocean climate is known to be an important determinant of the spatial-temporal distribution and dynamics of Atlantic bluefin tuna (BFT). Shifts in abundance indices have been documented in the western stock area that suggest a northward shift in the distribution of BFT from U.S. to Canadian waters associated with ocean warming. Recent ICCAT stock assessments of western BFT have been challenged with the need to resolve conflicting trends in U.S. and Canadian catch-per-unit-effort (CPUE) indices. Recent stock assessments for western BFT has integrated a climate indicator, the Atlantic Multi-decadal Oscillation (AMO) to account for the impact of warming on BFT catchability. The integration of the AMO to modulate catchability marks a significant advance in the recognition of changing ocean conditions on stock dynamics; however, many questions remain regarding the influence of ocean climate on BFT and the best approach for accounting for shifts in distribution.

The goal of this study is to develop improved indices of abundance for western BFT that account for the effects of changing ocean conditions on BFT spatial distribution. We propose to work collaboratively with fishery stakeholders to develop spatio-temporal models of BFT CPUE and evaluate its influence on the stock assessment. Specific objectives include: 1) engaging with fishery stakeholders on approaches to improve indices of abundance for the western BFT stock, 2) applying spatial-temporal modeling to develop improved indices of abundance for the western BFT stock, and 3) evaluating the influence of CPUE indices derived from spatial-temporal modeling on the stock assessment compared to conventional CPUE indices and the inclusion of environmental covariates within the stock assessment model. 
